
#### Nuno Vaz Afonso - Data Engineering Capstone   
### Project write up  

### Motivation  
For the theme of my Data Engineering Nanodegree project I wanted a relevant subject, that could be used for further future analysis.  
Because of that, I opted to study the evolution of COVID and its effect on our mobility, that brings dramatic consequences at our personal and psychological level and also at societal levels, imposing drastic economic consequences and shifting relations between nations.  
As a result, I wanted to focus on the evolution of the disease, its peaks and cycles across different countries, that promoted different political and economical responses.  
Aviation was as a consequence, a hugely affected sector, causing entire companies to bankrupt, affected by peaks of the disease and the opening and closing of borders.  

My study focuses on the effect of COVID on international mobility, and the hope brought by its cure: vaccination.  

### Data Sources
 __Flights__: [OpenSky Network](https://opensky-network.org) __flights__ data downloaded via [Zenodo repository](https://zenodo.org/record/4485741#.YFeVf_7LcYs).  
Per flight information of aerial traffic around the world. High cardinality information (Big data problem). Departure and arrival information, per aircraft, airline and date   

__Airports__:  [OurAirports](https://ourairports.com/data/) information for dimensional enrichment  

__COVID-19__: [WHO](https://covid19.who.int/)  per country evolution data of cases and deaths  

__Vaccination__: [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/covid-vaccinations) evolution per country data  

__Country__: [PyCountry](]https://pypi.org/project/pycountry/) library for dimension enrichment  

Data exploration process and other sources considered (but not included) in Jupyter Notebook `0_data_exploration.ipynb`, included in the present repository.  

Suggestions for future work:  
__Social Impact__ : Study of social impact of COVID throughout the world. Possibility of including sentiment analysis, with geographical relevance.   
[Twitter data](http://twitterdata.covid19dataresources.org) from  [Zenodo repository](https://zenodo.org/record/4568860#.YFeV0P7LcYs), leveraging existing data pipeline (flights)  

### Use cases  
With this project I aim to provide a curated dimensional model from reliable sources, for researchers to evaluate the effect of COVID-19 on international mobility, through the analysis of aerial transportation and the prevalence of cases per geography. We propose __three different facts__ to approach this subject :  
__Airport Arrivals__:  The number of arrivals per airport per day.  
_Example:_ Study the impact at country level and establish correlation between COVID cases prevalence, predicting cycles and effects  
__Airline Flights__:  The number of flights per airline per day.  
_Example:_ Study the impact on airlines and the rapid changes that led to bankruptcy of some companies     
__COVID__ : Number of cases, deaths and vaccinated people per country.  
_Example:_ Correlate the prevalence of cases and its effect in other factors, such as the decrease in flights, predict peaks and anticipate the need for vaccination minimums for normal economical functioning.   

Additionally, I argue that this model could further be improved and __extended__, through the integration of economic indicators for example.  
I also propose a social study, through the integration of __Twitter__ data, already mentioned in this write-up, but left out due to limitations of time and technical resources and money, out of scope for this project. Still, we can leverage the current pipeline, integrating further _Zenodo_ repositories, or creating new operators.  


